Add troubleshoot article for asset caching (#273)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/troubleshoot/asset-caching.md

---
title: Troubleshoot asset caching issues
description: Troubleshooting guide for common asset caching issues
author: vicroms
ms.author: viromer
ms.date: 02/12/2024
ms.topic: troubleshooting-general
---

# Troubleshoot asset caching issues

This article is intended for users experiencing issues while setting
up an asset cache. For instructions to set up an asset cache read the

> [asset caching documentation](../concepts/asset-caching.md).

Reviewer: Maybe a brief description before jumping in?

AI suggested:
Asset caching accelerates package retrieval by storing downloaded packages (assets) locally or on a network, reducing dependency on external sources. This guide assists users facing difficulties with asset cache setup or operation. For initial setup instructions, refer to the [Asset Caching Documentation](../concepts/asset-caching.md)

## Diagnosing asset caching errors

> When vcpkg downloads artifacts from the Internet (assets), it looks at
> available asset caches before attempting to download from the Internet.
> 
> By default, vcpkg emits no warnings or errors when a package is not found on an
> asset cache. Adding [`x-block-origin`](../users/assetcaching.md#x-block-origin) to
> your asset cache configuration disables the silent download mechanism, turning
> failures to restore assets into package build failures.
> 
> vcpkg prints the URL for each of the assets it downloads. You can detect asset
> caching errors if the download URL does not match your asset cache's URL. If
> you added `x-block-origin`, failing to restore an asset from one of the caches
> fails with an error message:
> 
> ```Console
> error: Failed to download from mirror set
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
vcpkg checks available asset caches before downloading artifacts from the Internet. By default, it silently falls back to external sources if an asset is not found in the cache. 

To enhance security and make missing cache hits more visible, add the [x-block-origin](../users/assetcaching.md#x-block-origin) option to your asset cache configuration. This option transforms asset restoration failures into explicit build errors, preventing unintended external downloads.

Indications of Asset Caching Issues:
* Downloads not utilizing cache URLs.
* The presence of `x-block-origin` results in explicit errors like:

```console
error: Failed to download from mirror set
```
```

## <a name="cache-failure"></a> Artifacts aren't being uploaded or restored from my asset cache

The `x-azurl` asset cache backend provided by vcpkg, is designed to work with
Azure Storage Containers, it may work with other storage services that accept
PUT requests with simple token authentication.

The configuration has the following format:

`x-azurl,<url>,<sas>[,<rw>]`

* `<url>`: The container's base URL
* `<sas>`: A Shared Access Signature (SAS) token if working with Azure Storage
  Containers; or an authentication request parameter if working with other providers.
* `<rw>`: (Optional) read/write permission configuration

> > !NOTE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
```

This is how it's currently rendering:
<img width="818" alt="image" src="https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg-docs/assets/44559473/d25f8523-f53a-4c2f-a61d-f14b0c2262a5">

vcpkg uses the `<sas>` parameter to authenticate to your asset cache provider.
There are a variety of reasons why the authorization may not succeed.

If you're using an Azure Storage Container, the `<sas>` parameter should contain
only the SAS token without any other request parameter formatting. For example:

`x-azurl,https://mystorageaccount.blob.core.windows.net/mystoragecontainer,sasvaluehere,readwrite`

Read the documentation on generating [SAS
tokens](/azure/storage/blobs/blob-containers-portal#generate-a-shared-access-signature)
for more information. Make sure that the generated token's read and write
permissions match your required use case.

If you're using a different provider, you may need to format the request
parameters correctly. For example, prefixing a parameter name before the token's
value.

`x-azurl,https://contoso.com,authorization=tokenvaluehere,readwrite`.

Steps to resolve:

1 - Verify that the authorization token is not expired
2 - Verify that the authorization token has the correct permissions to your container
3 - Verify that the authorization token's value is correct
4 - Verify that the authorization token's format matches the expected format by

> your provider.

Reviewer: These aren't rendering as a numbered list:

<img width="790" alt="image" src="https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg-docs/assets/44559473/970bda00-0377-409b-83e9-662ec9822b84">

> ## I get a "Failed to download from mirror set" error message

Reviewer: I'm not 100% sure, but I think you can get this error message if there is a network issue or the mirror is down for some reason. Maybe add that as a set to resolve?

---
title: Troubleshoot asset caching issues
description: Troubleshooting guide for common asset caching issues
author: vicroms
ms.author: viromer
ms.date: 02/12/2024
ms.topic: troubleshooting-general
---

# Troubleshoot asset caching issues

This article is intended for users experiencing issues while [setting
up](../commands/install.md) an asset cache. For instructions to set up an asset
cache read the [asset caching documentation](../concepts/asset-caching.md).

## Artifacts aren't being uploaded or restored from my asset cache

When vcpkg downloads assets it looks at available asset caches before
attempting to download from the Internet.

> By default, vcpkg emits no warnings or errors when a package is not found on an
> asset cache. Instead, it silently falls back to downloading the asset from the Internet.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, vcpkg emits no warnings or errors when a package is not found on an
asset cache. Use the [`x-block-origin`](../users/assetcaching.md#x-block-origin) to
disable the silent download mechanism, turning a failure to restore from an asset
cache into a package build failure.
```

vcpkg prints the URL for each of the asset it downloads. You can notice asset
caching errors if the download URL does not match your asset cache's URL.

The `x-azurl` asset cache backend provided is designed to work with Azure Storage
Containes and other storage servies that accept requests that require an
authentication token.

The configuration is as follows:

`x-azurl,<url>,<sas>[,<rw>]`

* `<url>`: The container's base URL
* `<sas>`: A Shared Access Signature (SAS) token if working with Azure Storage

>   Contianers; or an authentication request parameter if working with other providers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Containers, or an authentication request parameter if working with other providers.
```
